---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

Hi. I am **Gustavo Siqueira**. I'm a 26-year-old Brazilian programmer. Currently, I'm working towards obtaining my Computer Science Ph.D. title at **Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), Brazil**. My main interests concern of Machine Learning, Computer Vision, Information Retrieval, and Data Science.

My story in the tech world began in my childhood, when I was 5 years old, my father's old computer, which I can't even remember detailed information, with its Windows-95 was used by me in DOS mode to navigate access classic games like **[Blizzard Lost Vikings](https://www.blizzard.com/pt-br/download/confirmation?platform=windows&locale=pt_BR&product=tlv)**. I still remember how my father used to ask me to close everything and reopen in front of his friends to show how I was familiar with operating system commands.

Time passed and I started to look after more complex games and devoted the end of my childhood mastering **Super Nintendo** and **PlayStation** consoles. By that time we also upgraded to a slightly better computer with Windows-98 and started to use dial-up internet connection. Once in a while, my parents let me spend some time during the Sundays browsing for online games.

Only after we moved to a country town, where my mother's family resides, I turned back my interest in computers again. My mother's youngest brother influenced me a lot when it comes to games tastes. He started to play **[Microsoft Age of Empires](https://www.ageofempires.com/)** and I was fascinated by the game mechanics. However, my current PC at that time wasn't good enough to play it. I bothered my parents for as much time as I could to upgrade our PC using the excuse that it would be good for me in my school studies. Oh, I forgot to tell you that while I was trying to get a better PC a tried to format our old Windows-98 to install Windows XP and lost some of my father's important files. That cost me three months without using the PC, except for school assignments.

Internet became more popular and everyone started to have an **MSN Messenger account** or an **Orkut profile**. Unfortunately, I was still using that slow dial-up connection. Only when my father returned to study did I have access to an **ADSL connection**. By that time, as teenagers, my friends and I were starting to look after things beyond social networking or playing games. I discovered the basics of programming and how to hack some small stuff like freezing an e-mail account using one script we downloaded from one of those hackers community sites.

Finishing elementary school I had an important decision to make: where I would study in my high school. Turns out that technician schools were extremely popular at that time and I was pretty sure I wanted something related to technology. That's when I started my career as a programmer. In 2009, I was approved in the local technician school **CEFET-MG/Campus Itabirito**, current **[IFMG Itabirito](https://www.ifmg.edu.br/itabirito)**, where I acquired my title as a technician in industrial computing. My experience as a programmer during these three years wasn't exactly what I expected. Many of the things that I learned were related to automation in industries or digital systems using chipsets. I was way more interested in software development. The little contact that I had to **[C language](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/clibrary/)** and **Web Development**, using basic **[HTML](https://www.w3schools.com/html/)** and **[CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/Css/)** to built static pages, kept me motivated to follow the area in my graduation course.

In 2012, I finally started my **B.Sc. Computer Science** course at **Federal University of Ouro Preto (UFOP), Brazil**. This is the first great checkpoint in my career. What I'm about to learn in the next four years makes everything that I'd learn before looks like an introduction class that took me ten years. My skills as a programmer advanced in a speed never seen before by me. All a sudden I was implementing things that I used to think demanded months with an extremely skilled team composed for dozens of people. I implemented small games like that one Object Oriented Programming assignment to implement a **[Candy Crush]()** level that I used **[Angry Birds]()** as the theme. A complex distributed system to perform enormous data ordination in more than 20 machines with network error robustness and all sort of security checks that you might think. A 3D pinball game that I rather not enter into many details since it's still a traumatic experience due to my avoidance in graphical computing, especially using pure **[OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org/)**.

By that time, I also started an internship by my current advisor, professor Andrea Iabruddi, invitation with a research group at **Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), Brazil** in a data warehouse project using **DataSUS** to create methods for fraud detection. In 2013, my advisor left the faculty members of **UFOP**, which allowed me to become a research assistant at **[Gerência e Análise Inteligente de Dados (GAID) Laboratory](http://www.decom.ufop.br/gaid/)** under supervision of professor Guilherme Tavares de Assis. I worked with an improvement in my advisor's thesis proposal for a genre-aware focused crawler, more specifically, automatic setting of threshold limits for distinct crawled topics. We worked on this research topic until 2015 resulting in my monography document to graduate as a **B.Sc. Computer Scientist**, two international papers, [conference]() and [journal](), and helping me to achieve my next great checkpoint: start a **M.Sc. Computer Science course**. Additionally, I spend a year between 2014 and 2015 as an intern at **[Stilingue Artificial Inteligence](https://stilingue.com.br/)** in its very beginning performing distinct roles from simple front-end cards development as complex back-end API implementations. 

In August 2016 I started my **M.Sc course at Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), Brazil** under the advice of professor Alberto H. F. Laender. I was back in my home town, but in a new University where I didn't know anyone. Everything was new in there but my adaptation happened fast and soon I started to feel at home again. Working at **[Database Laboratory (LBD)]()** I published again two international papers, [conference]() and [journal](), about researchers hierarchical categorization using scarce information related to their publications. Research became the easy part. What concerned me was how people at UFMG was so different from UFOP. Everyone had an international internship or spend some time at a large company like Google and this made me rethink my priorities. Good grades and international publications were a good starting point, but I needed one of those extras to feel that I was putting real effort into the things that I was doing for my career. Unfortunately, I failed at the second stage for the Google internship process. But the experience and the discovery of skills that I needed to improve to achieve such a position made it worth it.

In 2018 I finished my **M.Sc. Computer** Science course and needed to take another important decision: should I stop my academic career here or take the final step and start a **Ph.D. Computer Science Course**? I had the opportunity to take the leap of faith and move to Canada, nothing guarantee but my CV and fluent English skills. Life surprises us in different manners. Some of them we can't know what to do. By the end of my M.Sc course, my grandfather passed away and my parents were divorcing, so I decided it wasn't a good time to leave the country. But I told that life surprises us in different manners. A graduation friend, Gabriel Resende, invited me to visit the research laboratory he was working on at UFMG. Computer Vision was a topic that I knew only by name or very little about well-solved problems like Character Optic Recognition. Of course, I worked with Machine Learning since the end of my graduation course, but Deep Learning was something pretty new to me which also made me fascinated by the things people were developing all around the world.

So here we are, I started my ** Ph.D. Computer Science** course at the end of 2018 in a completely new research area, in a new laboratory, and under the advice of professor William Robson Schwartz at **[Smart Sense Laboratory](http://smartsenselab.dcc.ufmg.br/en)**. I mastered the basis of Computer Vision in a few months, learned deep learning techniques, and worked for a company project for people monitoring so far. My current research is related to person re-identification and object tracking. There are many challenges in these problems and I'm excited to bring my discoveries in the future posts here for everyone that they might interest.

Hope you enjoy it!